# Tools for TrackMate

Updated 2021/4/15

Scripts contained in this directory are tools for converting to and from
TrackMate data formats. These scripts are provided as a user convenience,
and are minimally maintained. They may break due to updates to the HELM or
TrackMate formats.

If a script complains that a package is missing, simply run:
`pip install <package>`

## json_to_xml.py

This script converts track JSONs generated by the HELM pipeline to 
XMLs readable by TrackMate, a Fiji plugin.

```
usage: json_to_xml.py [-h] [--xml_outpath XML_OUTPATH] track_dir

positional arguments:
  track_dir             Directory to track JSONs to be converted

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --xml_outpath XML_OUTPATH
                        XML output filepath
```

Notes:
- This converter was only tested with TrackMate 6.0.2 on Fiji 2.1.0/1.53c. Using
  other versions may introduce incompatibilities.
- This converter was not tested beyond opening the file via Tracking -> Load a
  TrackMate File.

## xml_to_json.py

This script converts TrackMate XML files to track JSONs readable by the HELM
pipeline. This script is not critical path for the HELM pipeline, and may cause
issues past the "features" step.

```
usage: xml_to_json.py [-h] [--json_outdir JSON_OUTDIR] xmlpath

positional arguments:
  xmlpath               Filepath to the XML file to be converted

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --json_outdir JSON_OUTDIR
                        JSON output directory path
```

Notes:
- This converter was only tested with TrackMate 6.0.2 on Fiji 2.1.0/1.53c. Using
  other versions may introduce incompatibilities.
- This converter was not tested beyond HELM's features step.

## prettify_xml.py

`python prettify_xml.py`

This script formats `converted.xml` so that it is human-readable. This is not
required for TrackMate to read the file, it was only used for debugging.
